[MTA 8.2.0] New mta-ops guide (#383)
migtools/mta-documentation: docs/topics/mta-ops/con_workload-manifest-export.adoc

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.7
:_template-generated: 2026-07-07
:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT

[id="workload-manifest-export_{context}"]
= Workload manifest export

[role="_abstract"]
When you extract workloads, understanding the read-only export process helps you to capture the required resource manifests.

The export process is read-only and does not affect running applications. The `mta-ops` CLI operates completely independently of the migration toolkit for applications Hub.

The tool does not require a Personal Access Token (PAT). It authenticates directly to the clusters by using your local `kubeconfig` file.

> If you lack cluster-level permissions, the command logs a warning. It records inaccessible resources in a dedicated `failures/` directory.

Reviewer: I'd use a simpler word for 'lack', WDYT?

```suggestion
If you do not have cluster-level permissions, the command logs a warning. It records inaccessible resources in a dedicated `failures/` directory.
```

To identify skipped cluster-scoped resources during a partial export, you must inspect the `failures/` directory. The tool generates a YAML artifact for each inaccessible resource. These files contain the raw application programming interface (API) error.

> The `export` command exits with a non-zero status code only if all requested resource types return a `Forbidden` error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `export` command exits with a non-zero status code under one of the following conditions:

* All requested resource types return a `Forbidden` error.
* A resource type returns a timeout error.
```
The word "only" is inaccurate. The export command also exits with a non-zero status code on timeout errors (context deadline exceeded).
